.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2014 Jean-Francois Dockes <dockes@y.dockes.com>,
.\"
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPMPDCLI SECTION "February 10, 2014"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
upmpdcli \- UPnP Media Renderer front-end to MPD, the Music Player Daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upmpdcli
.RI [ options ] " files" ...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics,
.\" respectively.
\fBupmpdcli\fP is a program which should be run permanently (typically as a
daemon, or started upon logging in), and acts as an UPnP Media Renderer,
using the Music Player Daemon, \fBmpd\fP, for actually playing the
music. This allows integrating the high quality and widely ported MPD
inside an UPnP-based music network, typically with a remote running on a
tablet or phone.
.SH OPTIONS
This program uses short options. A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-h\fR \fIhost\fP
Define the host machine on which \fBmpd\fP runs.
.TP
.B \-p\fR \fIport\fP
Define the IP port used by \fBmpd\fP.
.TP
.B \-d\fR \fIlogfilename\fP
Send debug/trace messages to \fIlogfilename\fP.
.TP
.B \-l\fR \fIlevel\fP
Set the log verbosity (0-4).
.TP
.B \-D\fR
Daemonize (fork and run in background). Using -D for this is the reverse
from usual convention, but the authors found it better to avoid surprising
naïve users with an unexpected disparition of the program...
.TP
.B \-c\fR \fIconfigfile\fP
Use the configuration from \fIconfigfile\fP. The configuration file has a
simple \fIname = value\fP format and can set the same values as the command
line options (with a lower priority). The parameter names are
\fImpdhost\fP, \fImpdport\fP, \fIlogfilename\fP, and \fIloglevel\fP.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR mpd (1),
